---
title: 异常检测相关论文集
date: 2022-03-03 13:25:45
permalink: /pages/33580f/
category:
  - 机器学习
  - 异常检测
tag:
  - 机器学习
  - 异常检测
---

# 论文集

## 针对周期型KPI的异常检测算法

- Time Series Decomposition: Yingying Chen, Ratul Mahajan, Baskar Sridharan, and Zhi-Li Zhang. A provider-side view of web search response time. In Proceedings of the ACM SIGCOMM 2013 confere nce on SIGCOMM, pages 243–254. ACM, 2013.
- Holtwinters: He Yan, Ashley Flavel, Zihui Ge, Alexandre Gerber, Daniel Massey, Christos Papadopoulos, Hiren Shah, and Jennifer Yates. Argus: End-to-end service anomaly detection and localization from an isp’s point of view. In INFOCOM, 2012 Proceedings IEEE, pages 2756–2760. IEEE, 2012.
- AutoEncoder（AE）：[Anomaly Detection异常检测的几种方法](https://www.jianshu.com/p/e31ff328b682)
- Variational AutoEncoder（VAE）：[AIOps探索：基于VAE模型的周期性KPI异常检测方法](https://zhuanlan.zhihu.com/p/45400663)

## 针对稳定型KPI的异常检测算法

- 静态阈值: [Amazon cloudwatch alarm.](http://link.zhihu.com/?target=http%3A//docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonCloudWatch/latest/DeveloperGuide/ConsoleAlarms.html)
- Moving Average: David R. Choffnes, Fabián E. Bustamante, and Zihui Ge. Crowdsourcing service-level network event monitoring. In Proceedings of the ACM SIGCOMM 2010 Conf.
- Weighted Moving Average: Balachander Krishnamurthy, Subhabrata Sen, Yin Zhang, and Yan Chen. Sketch-based change detection: methods, evaluation, and applications. In Proceedings of the 3rd ACM
  SIGCOMM conference on Internet measurement, pages 234–247. ACM, 2003.
- Exponentially Weighted Moving Average: Balachander Krishnamurthy, Subhabrata Sen, Yin Zhang, and Yan Chen. Sketch-based change detection: methods, evaluation, and applications. In Proceedings of the 3rd ACM SIGCOMM conference on Internet measurement, pages 234–247. ACM, 2003.
- ARIMA: Yin Zhang, Zihui Ge, Albert Greenberg, and Matthew Roughan. Network anomography. In Proceedings of the 5th ACM SIGCOMM Conference on Internet Measurement, IMC’05, pages 30–30, Berkeley, CA, USA, 2005. USENIX Association.
- [时间序列的自回归模型—从线性代数的角度来看](https://zhuanlan.zhihu.com/p/35093835)

## 针对不稳定型KPI的异常检测算法

- Extreme Value Theory: Siffer A, Fouque P A, Termier A, et al. Anomaly Detection in Streams with Extreme Value Theory[C]//Proceedings of the 23rd ACM SIGKDD International Conference on Knowledge Discovery and Data Mining. ACM, 2017: 1067-1075.
- Wavelet: Paul Barford, Jeffery Kline, David Plonka, and Amos Ron. A signal analysis of network traffic anomalies. In Proceedings of the 2nd ACM SIGCOMM Workshop on Internet measurment, pages 71–82. ACM, 2002.

## 针对异常数据量太少， 采用异常注入算法

- Fernando Silveira, Christophe Diot, Nina Taft, and Ramesh Govindan. Astute: Detecting a different class of traffic anomalies. In Proceedings of the ACM SIGCOMM 2010 Conference, SIGCOMM ’10, pages 267–278. ACM, 2010.
- Anukool Lakhina, Mark Crovella, and Christophe Diot. Mining anomalies using traffic feature distributions. In Proceedings of the 2005 Conference on Applications, Technologies, Architectures, and Protocols for Computer Communications, SIGCOMM ’05, pages 217–228. ACM, 2005.
- Anukool Lakhina, Mark Crovella, and Christophe Diot. Diagnosing network-wide traffic anomalies. In Proceedings of the 2004 Conference on Applications, Technologies, Architectures, and Protocols for Computer Communications, SIGCOMM ’04, pages 219–230. ACM, 2004

## 针对不同类型的KPI进行聚类

- [Robust and Rapid Clustering of KPIs for Large-Scale Anomaly Detection](https://netman.aiops.org/~peidan/ANM2018/8.DependencyDiscovery/LectureCoverage/2018IWQOS_ROCKA.pdf)

